[expo-updates][docs] New quick start guide for updates (#21138)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/getting-started.mdx

description: Learn how to get started with EAS Update and use in your project.
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

> Setting up EAS Update allows you to push critical bug fixes and improvements that your users need right away.

Author: Done

Setting up EAS Update allows you to push critical bug fixes and improvements that your users need right away.

> ## Prerequisites

Author: @jonsamp after discussion with @brentvatne , this prerequisites section should be removed, since all supported SDK versions (46 and greater) now support EAS Update.

Reviewer: Thanks for updating this!

    '',
    '# Initialize the app in EAS',
    '$ eas init',
    '',
    '# Initialize your project with EAS Update',
    '$ eas update:configure',
    '',
  ]}
  cmdCopy="npx expo install expo-updates && eas init && eas update:configure"
/>

Inside **app.json**, make changes to use a fixed `runtimeVersion` property, and to add a request header that the app will use to specify a channel when downloading updates from EAS.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
```json app.json
  "expo": {
    /* @hide ... your existing configuration */ /* @end */
    "updates": {
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
      "requestHeaders": {
        "expo-channel-name": "main"
      }
      /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
    }
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
    runtimeVersion: '1.0.0',
    /* @hide ... */ /* @end */
  }
```

The `channel` allows you to point updates at builds. For example, if we set up a GitHub Action to publish changes on merge, it will make it so that we can merge code into the "production" Git branch. Then, each commit will trigger a GitHub Action that will publish an update that will be available to builds with the channel "production".

</Step>

<Step label="4">

> ## Build the project

Reviewer 2: I think we should keep pointing people towards EAS build. The previous version of this guide didn't require android studio / xcode to be set up to use EAS update and that seems like something we should strive to keep.

Author: We did keep it -- that guide is on the next page.

This is to get people to try out updates quickly on their desktop without waiting for EAS build.

Author: Per our discussion, EAS build guide will remain the "Getting Started" guide, and this new guide will go after the debugging page.

Run the following commands in order to get the app running on iOS or Android.

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# Run prebuild to install and configure the ios and android directories, and install Cocoapods for iOS.',

>     '$ npx expo prebuild',

Reviewer 3: expo run will run expo prebuild the first time, so this step seems superfluous.

Author: Called out prebuild as an extra step and made the steps hopefully more clear.

  /* @info New */   : 'This app is running an update'; /* @end */
  return (
    <View style={styles.container}>
      <Text>Open up App.js to start working on your app!</Text>
      /* @info New */ <Text>{runTypeMessage}</Text> /* @end */
      <StatusBar style="auto" />
    </View>
  );
}

const styles = StyleSheet.create({
  container: {
    flex: 1,
    backgroundColor: '#fff',
    alignItems: 'center',
    justifyContent: 'center',
  },
});
```

Then build and run the app again:

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '# iOS: Build and run the app on a local iOS Simulator.',
    '$ npx expo run:ios --configuration Release',
    '',
    '# Android: Build and run the app on a local Android Emulator',
    '$ npx expo run:android --variant release',
    '',
  ]}
  cmdCopy="npx expo run:ios --configuration Release && npx expo run:android --variant release"
/>

The app should appear as in the screenshot below.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="App running for the first time"
  src="/static/images/eas-update/getting-started-before-update.png"
  style={{maxHeight: 600, width: 'auto'}}/>
</Step>

<Step label="7">

## Publish an update

Now we're ready to publish an update that will include our changes.

> After optionally making additional changes to **App.js**, publish an update with the following command:

Author: I used the word "optionally", as it is possible but not necessary to make any other changes to App.js before running the update command.

> After optionally making additional changes to **App.js**, publish an update with the following command:

Reviewer 4: Makes sense!

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update', '']} cmdCopy="eas update" />

> There will be a prompt for the branch to publish on; select the default branch "main".
> 
> There will be a second prompt for entering an update message; select the default "Initial commit", or type in a custom message.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Running the command will prompt the following:

- For the branch to publish on. Select the default branch: `main`.
- For entering an update message. Select the default `Initial commit` message or type in a custom message.
```

Once the update is built and uploaded to EAS and the command completes, force close and reopen your app up to two times to download and view the update.

> The app should now appear as in the screenshot below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The app should now appear as shown in the screenshot below:
```

<Step label="4">
## Create a build for the project

> You need to create a build for Android and iOS. We recommend creating a build with the `preview` build profile first. See [Creating your first build](https://docs.expo.dev/build/setup/) on how to get started and set up [Internal distribution](https://docs.expo.dev/build/internal-distribution/#setting-up-internal-distribution) for your device or simulator.

Reviewer 2: Why is it mandatory to create a build for both Android and iOS? Think I prefer keeping the `or`.

Author: Agreed

> You need to create a build for Android and iOS. We recommend creating a build with the `preview` build profile first. See [Creating your first build](https://docs.expo.dev/build/setup/) on how to get started and set up [Internal distribution](https://docs.expo.dev/build/internal-distribution/#setting-up-internal-distribution) for your device or simulator.

Author: ```suggestion
You need to create a build for Android or iOS. We recommend creating a build with the `preview` build profile first. See [Creating your first build](https://docs.expo.dev/build/setup/) on how to get started and set up [Internal distribution](https://docs.expo.dev/build/internal-distribution/#setting-up-internal-distribution) for your device or simulator.
```
